---
license: apache-2.0
task_categories:
- text-generation
language:
- en
tags:
- human_feedback
size_categories:
- 10K<n<100K
pretty_name: BPO
---


# Dataset Card for Black-box Prompt Optimization (BPO)

## Dataset Description

- **Repository:** https://github.com/thu-coai/BPO
- **Paper:** https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04155
- **Model:** 

### Data Summary
To advance the development of alignment in language models, we introduce a black-box alignment method. BPO enhances the alignment of various Large Language Models (LLMs) with human preferences using only a plug-and-play model. To further promote alignment work from the prompting perspective, we are releasing the BPO Dataset. This dataset comprises 14,395 entries of prompt optimization pairs, constructed using open-source feedback data with OpenAI's `gpt-3.5-turbo` engine. We have thoroughly ensured the quality and diversity of the data through careful filtering and correction.

Please refer to our [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04155) for further details.

### Supported Tasks
The BPO Dataset is designed for Prompt Optimization / Engineering task. As we have carefully flitered and curated the dataset, it is also a good choice for SFT or RLHF.

### Language
The data in BPO are in English.

## Data Structure

### Data Instances

An example of "train" looks as follows:

```json
{
    "prompt": "Minimize the following data set\n[3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 10]",
    "optimized_prompt": "Provide a step-by-step solution to minimize the following data set: [3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 10].",
    "good_res": "To minimize the values in the given data set, which is a list of numbers, you could sort them in ascending order as follows: [3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 10]. The minimized (least) value in this data set would be 3.",
    "bad_res": "[3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 10]"
}
```

### Data Fields

The data fields are as follows:
* `prompt`: the original user input
* `optimized_prompt`: the optimized prompt based on feedback
* `good_res`: human-chosen (preferred) response
* `bad_res`: human-rejected response
### Data Splits
|               | train | valid | test |
|---------------|------:|------:|------:|
| BPO        | 13895 | 300 | 200 |

## Additional Information

### Source Data
Our feedback data come from the following open-sourced datasets:
- [OASST1](https://huggingface.co/datasets/OpenAssistant/oasst1)
- [hh-rlhf](https://huggingface.co/datasets/Anthropic/hh-rlhf)
- [Alpaca-GPT4](https://github.com/Instruction-Tuning-with-GPT-4/GPT-4-LLM/blob/main/data/comparison_data_v2.json)
- [Chatbot Arena Conversation](https://huggingface.co/datasets/lmsys/chatbot_arena_conversations)

### Other Known Limitations
- Feedback Data Quality: Due to our use of open-source feedback data, some human preferences included may not be entirely accurate.
- Task Diversity: Despite our efforts to filter and achieve a diverse dataset, these open-source datasets are clearly not sufficient to cover the wide variety of user queries.
- Optimized Prompts: The optimized prompts are auto-generated by `gpt-3.5-turbo` based on feedback data. Even though we have manually reviewed and modified the dataset, we cannot guarantee that all prompt optimizations are correct.

### Citation Information
```
@article{cheng2023black,
  title={Black-Box Prompt Optimization: Aligning Large Language Models without Model Training},
  author={Cheng, Jiale and Liu, Xiao and Zheng, Kehan and Ke, Pei and Wang, Hongning and Dong, Yuxiao and Tang, Jie and Huang, Minlie},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.04155},
  year={2023}
}
```